november release coverage (#234)
vendia/blog: releases/2022-11-25-releasenotes.md

---
draft: false
title: "Handle errors the GraphQL way and more results to your query"
description: "Vendia Share updated the response status code and allowing up to 1000 query results"
date: '2022-11-25'
authors:
  - Li Dai
tags:
- Improvements
- Developer Experience
- GraphQL
---

> Vendia Engineers worked tirelessly to improve our product and ensure that we follow and set best practices for industrial standards. Here are the newest updates!

Reviewer: Recommend changing to:
...to improve our product and leverage industry standards.

Author: accepted

> Vendia Engineers worked tirelessly to improve our product and ensure that we follow and set best practices for industrial standards. Here are the newest updates!

Author: I like the leading and setting standards better. It shows we mean business. :)

> # Error handling the way it should with [GraphQL](https://graphql.org/). 

Author: removed link

> Errors are not scary as long as we handle them well. In the past Vendia's end point would return 4XX and 5XX status codes for any http request failures. But that has changed as we decided to follow GraphQL's [recommended approach](https://graphql.github.io/graphql-over-http/draft/#sec-Field-errors-encountered-during-execution) over http calls.

Reviewer: I think customers would only see 4xx errors, right? 5xx were internal.  Given this, it's probably worth stating the specific types of errors that went from 4xx to 2xx that are noted here: https://www.notion.so/vendia/802a11ba67a74bbc948204b52f49af13?v=b38bad4e3af648db9df16d40d1250ade

Author: I'll make a table for this.

Author: done

> Errors are not scary as long as we handle them well. In the past Vendia's end point would return 4XX and 5XX status codes for any http request failures. But that has changed as we decided to follow GraphQL's [recommended approach](https://graphql.github.io/graphql-over-http/draft/#sec-Field-errors-encountered-during-execution) over http calls.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GraphQL errors are not scary as long as they are returned and properly handled. In the past Vendia Share would return 4XX and 5XX status codes for any http request failures. But that has changed with a move to GraphQL's [recommended approach](https://graphql.github.io/graphql-over-http/draft/#sec-Field-errors-encountered-during-execution).
```

> In short, it means the end point will always return 2XX. But when error happens, error messages will be included in the response. 

Reviewer: Is that true? I was under the impression there were scenarios in which we return both 200 and 400 error codes.

Reviewer: Per this doc, it looks like there are instances of 4xx error: https://www.notion.so/vendia/GraphQL-Improving-our-error-handling-efbabbcef21a4758a93dff16e120d287

Author: This doc seems to be outdated. The [2022-11-04 release](https://github.com/vendia/vendia/blob/master/releasenotes/releases/RELEASE_NOTES_prod-release.2022-11-04.e4105a1.rst) had updated all the RESTful status code standards to 200 and have error field within the response body.

> In short, it means the end point will always return 2XX. But when error happens, error messages will be included in the response. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In short, it means the GQL end point will always return a 2XX. But, when an error occurs, an `errors` field will be included in the response payload. 
```

Here's two examples using `Curl`:

> 1. A request with typo in it's query. `n` is intentionally removed in `listVendia_BlockItems`:

Reviewer: Great call on including the example error scenarios!  In other release notes, we often show it using an image of the malformed query in GraphQL explorer and the output on the right.   That then also shows off our UI and makes it really clear to see the query and output in one image, side-by-side.  

It's probably good to only highlight that which changes for the customer, i.e. the 4xx errors that are now 2xx and the list of error codes that will display back for each type of error.

Reviewer: This table has some example "bad queries" that you can use some of the examples - https://www.notion.so/vendia/Malformed-Graphql-Request-762307a4dbdd49c3a527a21301fcb763.

Going with this approach also then helps display the attributes that are included in the result set, e.g. the new set of error messages.

Reviewer: For reference, here are the error codes: https://www.notion.so/vendia/GraphQL-API-Errors-fe83bc5b6f4240ae96dfcf7f3b664a91#fb23db622a8346ccb0ea8e3cf57b3d40

Author: table made

x-amz-apigw-id: XXXXXX
x-amzn-trace-id: XXXXXX

{"data": null, "errors": [{"message": "Cannot query field 'listVedia_BlockItems' on type 'Query'. Did you mean 'listVendia_BlockItems', 'listVendia_FileItems', 'listVendia_FolderItems', 'listVendia_ApiKeyItems', or 'listVendia_ContractItems'?", "locations": [{"line": 1, "column": 22}]}]}%
```

2. A request with meaningless query body:

```
curl 'https://<some-domain>/graphql/' \
    -H 'Authorization: <api-token>' \
    -H 'content-type: application/json' \
    -H 'accept: application/json' \
    -i \
    --data-raw '{"query":"query "}'
```

Again, we see a `200` status code. The message informs us that the syntax is not right which makes sense since our query body has nothing.

Sample Response:
```
HTTP/2 200
date: Tue, 29 Nov 2022 20:31:52 GMT
content-type: application/json
content-length: 124
x-amzn-requestid: 6097318d-f50d-4097-b415-82e6a8f07652
access-control-allow-origin: *
x-amz-apigw-id: cYXYzEpbyK4FsBg=
x-amzn-trace-id: Root=1-63866c38-38b964043a2d77c240da4981;Sampled=0

{"data": null, "errors": [{"message": "Syntax Error: Expected '{', found <EOF>.", "locations": [{"line": 1, "column": 7}]}]}%
```

> It is recommended to understand the [common GraphQL error handling techniques](https://the-guild.dev/blog/graphql-error-handling-with-fp).

Reviewer: Is this link a reference for customers to see an approach to consume the error messages we present and process retries or exceptions accordingly?  Or is it more just context on how we may have implemented error handling?   

- If the former - that's great! And I'd call that out, something like "For examples on error handling, see {link}".  

- If it's the latter, we can probably exclude it as it may be too detailed but I'll defer to what others think if they think customers will like this depth. If it is, a phrasing suggestion to: "For more information on building error handling solutions, see {link}".

Author: it's former.

> It is recommended to understand the [common GraphQL error handling techniques](https://the-guild.dev/blog/graphql-error-handling-with-fp).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See [common GraphQL error handling techniques](https://the-guild.dev/blog/graphql-error-handling-with-fp) for more information on properly handling errors.
```

# Up to 1000 for your query results

> As your entity lists grow, eventually they will be large enough such that rendering all of them will not be ideal. To optimize resource usage, Vendia now allows up to 1000 results being returned in a single query.

Reviewer: This one is actually a little more complex because the return limits were due to a limit of 1MB which both restricted the items that could be returned and created a lot of empty pages.

Recommend adjusting to: 
With your growing data, the result set that can be returned grew too with it, too. 

The result set for `list{}` is no longer subject to 1MB limits, and with that now:
(1) Returns up to 1,000 items per page 
(2) Has fewer instances of empty pages when filtering on an unindexed field

Author: added filter samples. I wanted to show empty page samples but after update that's no longer possible.

Author: Since they are not new features, I would like to leave that out because I don't think customers have the need to know that we previously had empty page issues. Rather I would focus more on the limitation.

> As your entity lists grow, eventually they will be large enough such that rendering all of them will not be ideal. To optimize resource usage, Vendia now allows up to 1000 results being returned in a single query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As the number of entities increase, the result set for `list` operations will be too large to return in a single http response. To optimize resource usage, Vendia continues limits results to 1000 results per query.  However, in cases where a `filter` is applied, Vendia previously did not fully populate the result set.  With some recent changes, each `page` of results should be more complete (i.e. fewer if any empty pages) than they were previously.
```

Here are couple samples in a testing environment.

1. A basic query with `limit` set to `1000`:

```
query MyQuery {
  list_ProductItems(limit: 1000) {
    nextToken
    _ProductItems {
      name
    }
  }
}
```

You will see all or up to 1000 results which ever is lower:
```
{
  "data": {
    "list_ProductItems": {
      "nextToken": null,
      "_ProductItems": [
        {
          "name": "Item1"
        },
        {
          "name": "item2"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

2. A query attempt to set `limit` for more than `1000`:
```
query MyQuery {
  list_ProductItems(limit: 1001) {
    nextToken
    _ProductItems {
      name
    }
  }
}
```

> The query will then return null. It will provide you with the error message informing you that `the supplied list limit must be <= 1000`.

Reviewer 2: I'd add an example here showing a filter as well, since that's the biggest beneficiary of the new change (i.e. no more empty pages).

Author: I am not able to reproduce empty pages. I'll add filter to both of these examples instead.

```
{
  "data": {
    "list_ProductItems": null
  },
  "errors": [
    {
      "message": "the supplied list limit must be <= 1000",
      "locations": [
        {
          "line": 2,
          "column": 3
        }
      ],
      "path": [
        "list_ProductItems"
      ],
      "extensions": {
        "code": "VALIDATION_ERROR"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

> # Believe in Real Time Data Sharing?

Reviewer: I *think* we use a hyphen for **`Real-Time`** in all instances but it's worth double-checking me on this.

Author: done

> Vendia will continue to lead the data sharing and blockchain infrastructure field. [Get started for free](https://www.vendia.com/pricing) to see how data sharing can empower your business.

Reviewer: Just a phrasing suggestion:

Vendia leads the way in data sharing and business blockchains. [Get started for free](https://www.vendia.com/pricing) to see how Vendia can power your business.

Author: accepted
